UPSD.CONF(5)
============

NAME
----

upsd.conf - Configuration for Network UPS Tools upsd

DESCRIPTION
-----------

upsd uses this file to control access to the server and set some other
miscellaneous configuration values.  This file contains details on
access controls, so keep it secure.  Ideally, only the upsd process
should be able to read it.

CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
------------------------

"MAXAGE 'seconds'"::

upsd usually allows a driver to stop responding for up to 15 seconds
before declaring the data "stale".  If your driver takes a very long
time to process updates but is otherwise operational, you can use MAXAGE
to make upsd wait longer.
+
Most users should leave this at the default value.

"TRACKINGDELAY 'seconds'"::

When instant commands and variables setting status tracking is enabled, status
execution information are kept during this amount of time, and then cleaned up.
This defaults to 3600 (1 hour).

"ALLOW_NO_DEVICE 'Boolean'"::

Normally upsd requires that at least one device section is defined in ups.conf
when the daemon starts, to serve its data.  For automatically managed services
it may be preferred to have upsd always running, and reload the configuration
when power devices become defined.
+
Boolean values 'true', 'yes', 'on' and '1' mean that the server would not
refuse to start with zero device sections found in ups.conf.
+
Boolean values 'false', 'no', 'off' and '0' mean that the server should refuse
to start if zero device sections were found in ups.conf. This is the default.

"STATEPATH 'path'"::

Tell upsd to look for the driver state sockets in 'path' rather
than the default that was compiled into the program.

"LISTEN 'interface' 'port'"::

Bind a listening port to the interface specified by its Internet address or
name.  This may be useful on hosts with multiple interfaces.
You should not rely exclusively on this for security, as it can be subverted
on many systems.
+
Optionally listen on TCP port 'port' instead of the default value which was
compiled into the code.  This overrides any value you may have set with
'configure --with-port'.  If you don't change it with configure or this value,
upsd will listen on port 3493 for this interface.
+
Multiple LISTEN addresses may be specified.  The default is to bind to
127.0.0.1 if no LISTEN addresses are specified (and ::1 if IPv6 support is
compiled in).
+
To listen on all available interfaces, you may also use '0.0.0.0' for IPv4 and
and '::' for IPv6.

	LISTEN 127.0.0.1
	LISTEN 192.168.50.1
	LISTEN myhostname.mydomain
	LISTEN ::1
	LISTEN 2001:0db8:1234:08d3:1319:8a2e:0370:7344
+
This parameter will only be read at startup.  You'll need to restart
(rather than reload) upsd to apply any changes made here.

"MAXCONN 'connections'"::

This defaults to maximum number allowed on your system.  Each UPS, each
LISTEN address and each client count as one connection.  If the server
runs out of connections, it will no longer accept new incoming client
connections.  Only set this if you know exactly what you're doing.

"CERTFILE 'certificate file'"::

When compiled with SSL support with OpenSSL backend, you can enter the
certificate file here.
The certificates must be in PEM format and must be sorted starting with
the subject's certificate (server certificate), followed by intermediate
CA certificates (if applicable_ and the highest level (root) CA. It should
end with the server key. See 'docs/security.txt' or the Security chapter of
NUT user manual for more information on the SSL support in NUT.

"CERTPATH 'certificate database'"::

When compiled with SSL support with NSS backend, you can enter the
certificate path here.
Certificates are stored in a dedicated database (data split in 3 files).
Specify the path of the database directory.
    
"CERTIDENT 'certificate name' 'database password'"::

When compiled with SSL support with NSS backend, you can specify the
certificate name to retrieve from database to authenticate itself and
the password required to access certificate related private key.

"CERTREQUEST 'certificate request level'"::

When compiled with SSL support with NSS backend and client certificate
validation (disabled by default, see 'docs/security.txt'),
you can specify if upsd requests or requires client's' certificates.
Possible values are :
- '0' to not request to clients to provide any certificate
- '1' to require to all clients a certificate
- '2' to require to all clients a valid certificate

SEE ALSO
--------

linkman:upsd[8], linkman:nutupsdrv[8], linkman:upsd.users[5]

INTERNET RESOURCES
------------------
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
